Refactor the intervalindex-related API (#16573)
microsoft/FluidFramework: .changeset/happy-dreams-sing.md

---
"@fluidframework/sequence": minor
---

1. Deprecate API `findOverlappingIntervals` and `gatherIterationResults` from `IntervalCollection`, these functionalities are moved to the `OverlappingIntervalsIndex`. Users are advised to independently attach the index to the collection and utilize the API accordingly, for instance:

```typescript
const overlappingIntervalsIndex = createOverlappingIntervalsIndex(client, helpers);
collection.attachIndex(overlappingIntervalsIndex)
const result1 = overlappingIntervalsIndex.findOverlappingIntervals(start, end);

const result2 = [];
overlappingIntervalsIndex.gatherIterationResults(result2, true);
```

> 2. Deprecate API `previousInterval` and `nextInterval` from `IntervalCollection`, these functionalities are moved to the `OverlappingIntervalsIndex`. Users are advised to independently attach the index to the collection and utilize the API accordingly, for instance:

Reviewer: looks like these are on the EndpointInRange index, not overlapping. also, they're not exported by the interface (but they should be for this guidance to be true).

Author: yes this is a mistake, they should be on the `EndpointIndex` (potentially this functionality can be combined into `EndpointInRangeIndex` as well). Actually the `IEndpointIndex` and `createEndpointIndex` are already exported, so I think this guidance seems accurate..?

Reviewer: yeah, I was just looking at local contents. The API diff in this PR looks good once you fix the guidance to partners here.

```typescript
const endpointIndex = createEndpointIndex(client, helpers);
collection.attachIndex(endpointIndex);

const result1 = endpointIndex.previousInterval(pos);
const result2 = endpointIndex.nextInterval(pos);
```

> 3. Deprecate API `CreateBackwardIteratorWithEndPosition`, `CreateBackwardIteratorWithStartPosition`, `CreateForwardIteratorWithEndPosition` and `CreateForwardIteratorWithStartPosition` from `IntervalCollection`. Only the default iterator will be supported in the future, and it will no longer maintain the sequence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Deprecate API `CreateBackwardIteratorWithEndPosition`, `CreateBackwardIteratorWithStartPosition`, `CreateForwardIteratorWithEndPosition` and `CreateForwardIteratorWithStartPosition` from `IntervalCollection`. Only the default iterator will be supported in the future, and it will no longer preserve sequence order.

Equivalent functionality to these three methods is provided by `IOverlappingIntervalIndex.gatherIterationResults`.
```
